---
template: project
title: Me Book
slug: me-book
draft: false
date: 2019-03-10T17:32:01.061Z
description: >-
  A lite social media platform allowing users to create, edit, and delete posts.
  Users can also send and accept friends requests, comment on and like other
  people's posts.
hero: ../../static/media/me-book.png
category: Project
tags:
  - rails
technologies:
  - rails
  - devise
  - bulma
  - haml
  - has-friendship
  - active-storage
  - s3
---

The [odinproject](https://www.theodinproject.com/) was quite instrumental in the building of this rails project. By starting off with piecemeal apps that only focus on one criteria at a time, each new knowledge block gained can be used in the proceeding project.Utilizing this technique I built multiple singular apps focusing on routing, controllers, authentication and authorization with devise, active record, and associations.

This app turned out to actually be quite simple when broken down into its most simple and singular pieces:

### User

- devise gem handles the registration and authentication
- has_friendship gem handles sending and accepting friend requests between users

### Post

- posts belongs to user and can have many likes

### Likes

- belongs to posts and users

### Notifications

- belong to posts
- created on comment or like of your post

With this barebones idea of how the overall app's models and controllers would be assimilated, I could iteratively work on this project and maintain a scope of where I was in the project against the end goal.

One of the best things I would recommend for someone creating a rails project is the use of `haml` over the default `erb` for the views. I have a malfunctioning left shift-key and already have caps-lock mapped to ctrl, so you can imagine how painful using `right-shift` + angle-brackets would have been. [Bulma](https://bulma.io/) css was also a great new alternative to bootstrap as the documentation is much simpler to read and it's quite light as some heavy JS is not included in the build.

Some of my regrets about this project was that

1. I didn't focus too much on the UI/UX, deferring from make it appear as a typical social platform like facebook or twitter,
2. ajax was not implemented, which is quite evident when a user likes a post and the like count is not visually updated immediately, and
3. I did not setup s3 to upload and retrieve images from. Any images uploaded are removed by Heroku when they restart their dynos.

I do intend to address the above shortcomings, whether it be in this project or future projects. All in all, this project was a culmination of all the things I had learned in the past few months working with rails and I am quite satisfied with this accomplishment.

Github Repo: [me-book](https://github.com/cdrani/me-book)

Live: [me-book](https://me-book.herokuapp.com)
